Prologue

I was alone and starved of love, a child spurred on by the hatred.
I took a different path from my friend, who knew pain similar to my own. I chose a path of further loneliness.
Connections give a rise to the warmth of emotion, and these occasionally flashed brightly, exposing my own weakness in the harsh light of day. My body was enveloped in darkness; I turned my back to the light, my heart stained black with hatred.
To get revenge on my older brother, Itachi, who killed my clan, my family. To get revenge on Konoha for pinning all their crimes on Itachi, for using him. To bring about a revolution in this world and a build a world without mistakes with my own power.
I can't just let you go!!
And there, my only friend standing in my way. A shinobi who knows my pain. Relentlessly honest, he is a man who does not stray from this world.
I brushed him off any number of times, even tried to take his life. And yet he did not give up, he did not abandon me; he desperately reached out to me, locked onto me. And this man —the man I tired so hard to server my relationship with— he pulled me out of my solitude.
I lost.
I remember the dazzling light of the morning sun in the Valley of the End —although I had chosen the place with the intent of a final, decisive battle— the pain we shared in our hearts, the warn tears on my cheeks. I will never forget.
Naruto. My friend. He said, What I wanna do is get all shinobi to cooperate with each other! Including you, of course!
I am in Naruto's world. I am blessed to exist.
His was like the warmth I once got from my family. It made me feel that I truly existed in this world. The connections with my family, the love.
Revenge has supported me. At the same time, it had eaten away at me. Hatred raced through my body like a poison, and killed all other human emotion. And when I was in that state, he lit the fire in my heart once more.
I stepped onto a new path. A path leading from the past to the future. It is not an even path, however. This world still contains all kinds of pain.
Sharingan in my right eye, Rinnegan in my left.
The future reflected in these eyes that once stared into darkness...

Chapter 1
Dark clouds appearing in a world of change

1.
"Give my best regards to the Lord Raikage as well".
The vast ocean was veiled in white mist. Not particularly good for visibility, but the women were accustomed to fog; they cloud see quite well, even in these conditions.
Enclosed on all four sides by the ocean, The Land of Water, one of the lands known as the five great ninja nations, was also home to the village of Kirigakure. The days when Kirigakure was known as the Village of the Bloody Mist and the origin of Akatsuki were in the distant past. Yagura, the Fourth Mizukage, had dirtied his hands with all sorts of evil, but the genjutsu cast on him had been released by the late Ao's byakugan, and with Terumi Mei's assumption of the office of Fifth Mizukage, the situation in Kirigakure was steadily improving.
And then, the Fourth Great Ninja War changed the world completely. The constantly quarrelling five great ninja lands had joined hands and come through the terrible battles together, becoming war comrades. Even after the Great War, they had worked together to overcome the difficulties that arose to sake the world. Many lives had been sacrificed in the war, and those who survived lived with great sadness, but the things gained were also great.
"Please be thorough in your duties in the joint training between Kirigakure and Kumogakure!" Chojuro —carrying the large twinsword Hiramekarei that was proof that he was one of the Seven Ninja Swordsmen— called to the ninja preparing to sail away.
The surf pounded against the port. A ship large enough to carry a hundred people was currently moored there, in this critical location for the Land of Water, surrounded by the sea as the country was.
Some people has kicked up a fuss when the decision was made to train together with another village, but still the feeling of friendship was actually quite strong. The fact that they had exchanges like this with other lands was due in large part to Uzumaki Naruto and the many incredible things he had accomplished during the Fourth Great Ninja War. His hope was that ninja would come together to create a world without war.
"These sorts of experiences will also be good for the future of Kirigakure", the Mizukage remarked to the squad leader in charge of the joint training group.
"Yes, ma'am! We will be bold. Made for this mission, we will build a basis for friendship with other nations!" The squad leader responded sincerely to this hope of the Mizukage.
But she reacted with a gasp. Old maid?!
Utterly ignorant of the Mizukage's state of upset, Chojuro said to the squad leader, "The Lord Raikage is hard on both self and others at times. But he is a firm and brave man. He gives his all to everything he does. Also, this time of year, powerful typhoons often from around the islands neighboring the Land of Water, so please do not act rashly. Keep an eye out for them".
"Ha ha! So now you worry about other people now, hm, Chojuro? Better off herding cats".
Old maid, hard on both self and other at times... Trash her?!
As Chojuro and the others chatted cheerfully, the look on the Mizukage's face grew grim, and an ominous aura rose up around her.
Noticing her silence, Chojuro cocked his head curiously to one side and looked at her. "Lady Mizukage, is something the matter?".
She exhaled a long breath and collected her scattered nerves.
"I just remembered things with Ao... If he were here..."
"Oh, Ao... I wish hr could see me now too". Chojuro had apparently taken her statement to mean she wanted to show off the now-grown Chojuro to Ao.
Rather than correcting him, the Mizukage smiled and brought heir conversations together with a "Truly".
"All right, then! We'll be off!" a ninja on the ship called, now that all members were aboard; the ship slowly left the port.
"The five great nations hated each other so much, and now we can join hands like this", Chojuro murmured deeply moved, as they watched it sail off in mist of sea spray. "It'is simply incredible, isn't it?".
"Yes, it really is". The Mizukage felt something more than this, than how Chojuro left the transformation of this changing world in his own way. She was one of the shinobi who has lived through the dark days of Kirigakure. She had fought, drenched in the blood of the others, in her own blood, for the sake of the village.
Back then, if a ninja was determined to be a burden, they were simply thrown to the wolves. It had indeed been a time when everything was suspected, when they had lost sight of what they were living for, what they believed in, as if they has been in a thick fog. That environment had produced, among others, Momochi Zabuza, feared as a demon; Haku of the Yuki clan, toyed with by the sad destiny of kekkei genkai; and Hoshigaki Kisame, who bore the darkness of Kirigakure alone —so-called "evil" ninja. As a ninja from the same village, from the same era, however, the Mizukage secretly had complicated feelings about calling them evil.
With the tensions among the five great nations easing, and thus, fewer and fewer battles, this world, formerly centered around fighting, was now changing from its foundations.
Which meant that both ninja and average citizens also needed to change to adapt to these new times. But not everyone could accept this. There were inevitably going to be people who rejected and despised the idea of this change, who would try to destroy this new world.
In her struggle to undo the negative inheritance left by the former Mizukage and Kirigakure's own history, the current Mizukage, Mei, was coming up against all kind of difficulties, so she knew. Change was no simple mater.
The ship bound for the Land of Lightning had become a shadow in the distance in the blink of an eye. The Mizukage strained her eyes to follow the hazy ship disappearing into the white mist.

"It got cloudy all of a sudden".
The Kirigakure ninja keeping watch on the deck of the ship looked up at the sky. It had been a day since the ship set out from the port in the Land of Water toward the Land of Lightning. After they slipped through the white fog, they had been blessed with good weather, but abruptly, black clouds started gathering above them. The wind blew against her cheeks, and the calm face of the ocean began to change.
"A storm might be coming". the watch ninja took a step to go and report to the people inside. But she felt eyes on her somehow. Unconsciously, she turned in that direction and saw a small boat in the ocean, in the breaks between the waves. "A fishing boat?".
Aboard the vessel were several people dressed like fishermen in straw raincoats and woven amigasa hats. But there were many islands of all sizes in this area, and more than a few of their residents made their living fishing. There was no need to be particularly concerned. Or so she thought, but the boat was gradually heading toward them.
"Hey! You're going to hit us!" she called out a warning, but the boat didn't show any signs of stopping. "Hey!" The watch ninja learned over from the ship, grabbed her forehead protector with the Kirigakure crest on it, and held it up. Perhaps there came through in this a boast that they were ninja of Kirigakure, an unconscious arrogance that fishermen like them couldn't do anything about it.
One of the people in the boat stood up. Woven hat deep over their eyes. Fingers grasping the edge, slowly lifting it. The hidden chin, the mouth, the nose were revealed, and then...
The instant she saw the eyes, the watch ninja fell down.
"H-hey! What's wrong?!" The eyes of the other ninja on deck grew wide at their comrade suddenly dropping to the deck after calling out a waring to the small boat ahead of them. But before any of them could race over to her side, they sensed an abnormal aura.
"Wh-who's there?" The mysterious person, face covered by the woven hat, landed soundlessly, alone, on the deck of the sip. From the way they carried themselves, there was no doubt they were a ninja.
Hearing the commotion, the squad leader came running up.
"Seize them!"
The ninja Kirigakure began to weave signs to capture and eliminate the intruder. They were on the water; given the number of the Water Style users in Kirigakure, they should have had the upper hand.
However, the intruder calmly lifted the edge of the hat again.
"Wha—!!"
Young ninja with promising futures, veteran shinobi who had lived through the time known as the Village of the Bloody Mist and survived the Fourth Great Ninja War, all of them crumpled on the spot, unable to do anything against this alone ninja opponent.

"They're late"
The ninja of Kumogakure grumbled, waiting in the drizzling rain to greet the ninja of Kirigakure at the port in the Land of Lighting. The scheduled arrival time was long past, and no message had come to say the ship would be late.
"The Lord Raikage's going to lose it if they're too late".
Their straightforward, short-tempered Raikage. If they kept him waiting too long, he would erupt in anger; he might very well bring the lightning of his name down on them.
"Maybe the weather's not working with them. There's nowhere out on the ocean to get out of the rain, after all".
"But they could at least send a messenger hawk from the ship, right? It'd make it easier for us to report to up high too, if they'd send a little note saying they're late". "That's true, but...".
The wind brushed against the cheeks of the increasingly wetter Kumogakure ninja. After considering again the possibility that their arrival could be even further delayed, they decided to send a messenger to Kumogakure.
"Hey, wait. Is that it there?".
A ship has finally appeared on the horizon.
"So they finally show up, huh?".
The ship bore the mark of Kirigakure; it was clearly the one they were waiting for.
"It's kind of really quiet, huh?".
There was no one on the deck; they couldn't see any Kirigakure ninja. Perhaps they had gone into the cabin to avoid the rain.
As the ship approached, the wind and rain grew more intense. Almost as if bringing something sinister.
"Welcome to the Land of Lightning!" the Kumogakure representative called out, as the ship reached the shore.
There was no response from inside. Thinking this suspicious, the Kumogakure ninja looked at each other.
"Welcome!" she shouted again, her voice tense.
Finally, someone appeared from within ship. A ninja wearing a woven hat. This ninja glanced down at the representative who had called out to welcome the ship.
"...Oh...!" The representative swayed, and then collapsed on the rain-slick port.
"Wh-what's wrong?!". The Kumogakure ninja were bewildered by this sudden event.
The ninja in the hat jumped down from the ship and tossed the hat away, revealing what had been hidden beneath it.
"Th-those eyes?!"
Crimson eyes glowing eerily in the rain. Not one of the Kumogakure ninja escaped being caught in their glaze.
"Crap, ocular jutsu..."
Merely upon seeing that red glow, the ninja of Kumogakure lost all their strength and fell to the ground.
"That was wonderful". Red Eyes' comrades leaped down from the ship after watching the scene play out.
"Put them in the ship", Red Eyes instructed, and the other ninja nodded.
The Kirigakure ninja were already inside the ship, fat on their backs, not moving so much as a muscle.
While the others hauled the Kumogakure shinobi up, Red Eyes picked up the woven hat and put it back on. The weather grew increasingly rough, and the black clouds, stirred up by the wind, twisted like a giant snake.
"We got them all!" one ninja shouted, and Red Eyes leapt up back onto the ship.
A bolt of lightning raced across a sky rumbling with thunder.
"We'll dye it all red".
I will nor allow this peace.

2.
The woods were thick. Ivy twined around fat trunks, down to the roots of mossy trees, erasing the border between tree and earth. This particular tree that stretched its branches to the heavens, seeking the light of the sun, was hundreds of years old. But beyond it were young buds not yet grown.
Someone was looking down on it all. The left eye that barely peeked out from the hair hanging across his face was the supreme Rinnegan. At first glance, the right looked to be a normal eye, but it housed the Sharingan, the kekkei genkai of the Uchiha clan. The man's name was Uchiha Sasuke.
At the top of the massive tree, Sasuke looked out at the view in all directions. He had made it through the Fourth Great Ninja War and come back a shinobi of Konoha once more.
However, rather than saying in the village, he had set out on a journey.
I want to know how this ninja world —how the world looks to me now.
He had been traveling for several years, and had seen things he probably wouldn't have noticed when he was steeped in darkness. There had also been times when he looked back gently on the past he had tried to break free of. There were moments when he remembered his friends. He saw with his own eyes the scars of the war; he touched on people's sadness, and felt the futility of revenge.
In the past, Sasuke had endured the pain and suffering of having his family and his clan taken from him with the powerful medicine of revenge. But in the depth of that darkness, he had become confused about what path to go down. He had lost sight of what was important. It had taken a very long time to be able to understand and accept that, but Sasuke truly felt it now.
He felt the changes in the world as well. The five Kage had moved to make major wars disappear, and maintain peace and order. Once, the power of the ninja was used to protect their own countries, and to invade and attack other nations. Now, it was being made use of to develop equipment that did not require chakra to instantly transmit information, to maintain medical facilities, to actively communicate with other nations, and to enhance distribution systems, among other things. The world was stepping into a new age of growth.
Which was exactly why he could not overlook one particular issue.
Otsutsuki Kaguya.
The woman who had taken in her mouth the fruit of the Divine Tree —said to be forbidden— gained chakra, and brought calm to a turbulent world. But she had been consumed by the immense power, and after a time when she ran wild, her own children, Hamura and Hagoromo, had sealed her away.
The very Kaguya had come back to this world, and Sasuke had, along with this comrades in Team 7 and Uchiha Obito, sealed her away once more. Once the threat that had rocked the world had passed, people rejoiced, but something about it bothered Sasuke.
Through Black Zetsu's secret maneuvering to bring her back, Kaguya has linked the people she cast Infinite Tsukiyomi on to the roots of the Divine Tree, transforming them over many years into her personal soldiers. The end result was the army of White Zetsu.
Formerly known as the Rabbit Goddess, Kaguya changed somehow after she had freed the world from conflict, so the people connected to the Divine Tree also came after the peace she brought about. Why, in a world where fighting was supposed to have ended, was there a need to use the Infinite Tsukiyomi on people and turn them into soldiers? To play cruelly with those who had power, to control human being with fear; a number of reasons came to mind, but Sasuke could see no clear answer.
He was chasing after the traces Kaguya had left behind to clear away his doubts, but his opponent was the progenitor of chakra. Sasuke might have had the Rinnegan, but picking up her trail was no easy feat.
"Mm?" Sensing an aura, he looked toward the southwest.
When he squinted, he could see something flying in his direction. At first glance, it was a small bird flapping its wings, but circulating in that bird was not blood, but ink and text brought o life by chakra.
Sasuke quickly pulled out a scroll, and the bird flew toward it as if called. Konoha ninja Sai's Art of Cartoon Beast Mimicry.
The figure of the bird disappeared, and in its place, text spread out on the open scroll.
Thinking that he needed to have a more diverse view of the world in order to know Kaguya, Sasuke had recently deliberately begun communicating with Konoha more often, asking them to send him information on the state of the village and of the world.
He turned his gaze to the words on the page, thinking it was one of those missives, but his brow furrowed at the content.
"This..."
It was a message from the current Hokage, Hatake Kakashi.
Apparently, a large number of ninja from Kirigakure and Kumogakure has suddenly disappeared. There was no sign of a fight, and information was limited, so the Hokage was asking him to contact Konoha if he found anything suspicious that might have been related to the incident.
"More than a hundred ninja suddenly vanish?"
If a person was behind it, it was posible that they were a genjutsu user. In which case, it would be best for Sasuke, with his superior ocular jutsu, to respond. If he used the Sharingan, he might be able to see what other ninja couldn't.
At the top of the tree he had climbed to check his direction, Sasuke looked around once more with those eyes. Several clouds of white smoke piffed up info the air beyond the forest he was perched in. Not from fires, though. It was steam. He was that close to Yugakure, a village where hot springs welled up out of the earth, often used as a hot-spring resort. It was in the Land of Steam, which was not far from the Land of Linghtning, and ships always departed from there to the Land of Water.
"Maybe I'll head for the Land of Lightning, then". Given that he could reach it via a land route, Sasuke first set his sights on the Land of Lightning, and dropped back down into the forest.

Until around the time the sun was setting, Sasuke charged forward silently, without resting, racing through a bamboo thicket. It was hard to jump through the supple, elastic bamboo the way he did with trees. As he moved across ground littered with bamboo leaves to quickly make his way out of the grove, Sasuke thought about the situation.
He was still in the Land of Steam. He wanted to be in the neighboring Land of Frost by the time the date changed, and then in the Land of Lightning and the village of Kumogakure the following day.
Abruptly, a small settlement came into his field of view. It was the sort of country village you'd see anywhere, but he unconsciously came to a stop.
There was not a single light in the village.
Although the sun had set, it was too early for everyone to have gone to sleep. And he had also just heard about the disappearance of a large number of ninja.
Sasuke closed his eyes for a moment and focused his power in his right eye. When he opened his eyelids, the eye was dyed red, three tomoe marks visible in it. Saringan.
He looked at the village with that eye. There were indeed people inside the houses, which made ample use of the surrounding bamboo in their construction. But all of them were sill like they were holding their breath. Almost as though they were afraid of something.
His curiosity piqued, Sasuke took a step toward the village.
"So you show yourself! You fallen Dark Thundeeeeerrrr!"
Someone leapt out with a great deal of force from beneath the bamboo leaves.
Sasuke looked in that direction to find a balding old man, all skin and bones, charging at him, bamboo spear in hand. His movements were not quick, and he wasn't strong; he seemed to be a normal person with no connection with the ninja arts.
Sasuke jumped backward and lightly dodged. But in the spot where he landed, he felt chakra behind him.
"Water Release: Rain Barrage!" The high-pitched voice of a young girl rang out, and countless tiny pellets of water like the icing sugar on a sweet cake flew at him.
Sasuke wove signs, took a breath, and brought a finger to his mouth. Fire Style: Great Fireball Technique!
Fire Style was the specialty of the Uchihas. The flames he released enveloped the water pellets of his opponent, evaporating them instantly.
"What?! Water Style can be done in by Fire Style?!" his opponent shouted, upon seeing her own technique disappear without ever touching Sasuke. He looked over and saw a short girl with a childish face standing there.
"Chino, get back!" Now a brawny man appeard, as if to push the girl "Chino" back. Kunai at the ready, he tossed it at Sasuke, the tip aiming straight at his heart.
It stabbed into the bamboo behind him. Rrrrrip! The oversized grass exploded backward.
"Wind's changing nature hm?" Sasuke noted. The kunai, cloaked in wind chakra, had expanded the air inside the node of the bamboo and ruptured it.
"Hey" You youngsters, what are  you at?! Hurry up and take him down!" the old man shouted.
"Whaaaat?! No one told me he was this strong!" Chino frowned and stared at Sasuke. And then she gasped and pointed at his eye. "No! no way! Look, Nowaki! That eye... the Saringan!"
A surprised look rose up on the face of the large man, who was apparently Nowaki. "Is that real?"
You listen, you spineless brats! You're gonna be like that, then I'll do it! Dark Thunder, I'll get vengeance for my daughterr!" Clutching his bamboo lance, the old man charged once more.
Sasuke didn't have a chance to even ask what was going on; in any case, he had no choice. "Hah!" He pushed out a hard breath, and took his sword in hand.
"Diiiiiiiieeee!" The old man pushed the bamboo lance forward.
Sasuke easily cut the end of it off. With incredible speed, he then sliced the lance into thin rounds up to the old man's hand, before bringing the tip of his sword up against the old ma's windpipe. Sasuke pressed the blade against his throat as if to make him keenly aware of the cold sensation of the sword.
"Ee, eeep." The bamboo, chopped down to a single joint, fell from the old man's hand. Droplets of sweat popped up on his dry skin and fell to the ground.
"Ah, ah w-wait, brother! Boss! Handsome! Manly! Don't kill the old man!" Panicked, Chino came at Sasuke as if to calm him.
Not responding to this, Sasuke said to the old man, "You've got the worng idea".
"Hah, hah...".
"I don't know this Dark Thunder".
"Eee, eee..." Sasuke's words didn't seem to make it into the old man's ears; he kept breathing sallowly, trembling with fear.
They wouldn't get anywhere like this.
Sasuke moved the blade of his sword the tinest bit away from the old man's throat. "I am not Dark Thunder".
"What?"
"That's the first time I've heard the name". Sasuke lowered his sword, and the old man crumpled to his knees on the spot.
Meanwhile, Chino and Nowaki looked at each other.
"Iou! He says it's a mistake!" Chino shouted.
But the old man Iou's moaned, "Shut up! This isn't the time for that! My heart, ah! My heart huuuurts!" Released from the terror of death, Iou's body responded with intense heart palpitations. He pressed a hand to his chets, and desperately sucked in air.
"Sorry. That was a terrible mistake for us to have made."
Unlike Iou, Nowaki seemed sincerly apologetic.
"Although I feel like we would have been the ones to be killed if the fighting continuaded, I am sorry", Chino added, clapping both hands together in a gesture of contrition. "C'mon, Iou!".
You say sorry, too!
Sill on the ground, Iou turned his face away. "Hmph! It's his fault for coming through Takeno at a time like this!" he cursed.
"Oooh, damned old man!"
"What did you say?!" Spurred on by Chino's words, Iou tried to stand up, but he quickly sat down hard again. Apparently, he had thrown his back out as well. He pounded the ground in vexation. "Ngh! And I thought for sure we'd settle things with the Dark Thunder gang today!".
"Exactly what is this Dark Thunder gang?" Iou had said he was going to get revenge for his daughter. There was no doubt something was happening here.
"Um, that story's a long one. ...Iou, let's go home for now. We have to explain things to the man here".
Like a stubborn child, Iou turned his face away. Chino grumbled an exasperated "Come onnnnnn", and then signaled Nowaki with her eyes.
"We're going back now, Iou". Nowaki hauled Iou up off the ground.
"Hngh!" the old man cried.
Nowaki started to walk toward the village, and Chino followed, hands clasped behind her head. Sasuke stared at their backs; Chino looked back to urge him on. "Hurry up!"
"This looks like it's going to be a hassle", Sasuke murmured as he moved to follow the three. But then he sensed eyes on him and whirled around.
Sasuke surveyed the scene, but there was only the bamboo forest spreading out before his eyes. It was quiet, no sign of any beast.
"Brother what's the matter?" Chino called out, concerned.
Sasuke looked the bamboo thicket over once more before following after her.

They brought him to Iou's house. Apparently, Iou was the mayor of this Takeno, and his home was remarkably large. Inside were all kinds of items made of bamboo, from everyday accessories to children's toys.
"So, like, Takeno apparently sells these bamboo crafts to make a living". Chino showed Sasuke the bamboo wicker baskets, skewers, and fishing rods, among other items off to one side.
"Don't go touching things!" Iou snatched a skewer from her with a snarl, but Chino wasn't put off in the least; she picked up a bamboo dragonfly and set it flying through the room. Unfortunately, it looked like it was going to land on top of Sasuke's head, but he caught it before it did, and held it up in front of him.
"I guess they sell all these in Yugakure. There's a lot of tourists there", Chino noted. "But the prices are too low, so they barely make anything off them".
"Quiet, you!" Iou roared instantly.
Yugakure was the rare ninja village that was also a tourist destination. And judging from the piled-up baskets and the large number of skewers in the work area, there seemed to indeed be a demand for the items, but life was apparently still hard in this village.
"Actually, me and Nowaki performed in Yugakure a little earlier".
"Performed?" Sasuke raised an eyebrow.
"We're shinobi has-beens, traveling performers. We made some real coin in that onsen town. You can really clean up in entertainment there". Chino breathed out, and soap bubbles appeared, one after another. For a shinobi, it wasn't much of a trick, but it was probably well received by the average person.
"So. We were heading off to a different area when we came through Takeno, okay? We stopped at the store for food, and this old man grabbed onto us. He begged us to help him get revenge, and then cried all over us".
They were finally getting to the subject at hand. As if compelled by Chino's story, Iou shouted, "It's all because of Dark Thunder! They're a heartless, soulless, evil organization! They come after tiny villages and pillage them! They kill people for sport! A few months ago, they came after the village my daughter married into... and they killed everyone!".
So that's why he was talking about revenge.
Perhaps remembering his daughter, tears sprang up in Iou's eyes. "We weren't blessed with children, and then after we got old, finally, my sweet baby girl! She got married last spring. She was going to have a baby soon!".
Seemingly unable to put his feelings into words any further, Iou gritted his teeth like he was trying to hold back his tears.
"He said his daughter was killed and his wife took sick from the shock of it and died", Chino finished.
Tragedy begets tragedy, and now all only Iou was left. It was a terrible situation —no wonder he had been driven to vengeance.
Having silently listened thus far, Nowaki looked pityingly at Iou. "Apparently, the people of this area fear this Dark Thunder and live their lives in dread. Look at the windows".
When Sasuke did as instructed, he saw that blackout curtains hung over the windows so that no light leaked out. The people in the other houses likely had the same setup.
So that's why they had lain in wait, and tried to take down the Dark Thunder group.
"Now, you! You're strong, right! Please! Help me!" Iou roughly wiped his eyes with the back of his hand as he asked Sasuke for his help, almost throwing himself forward.
"What? Isn't that a bit too selfish?" Chino sounded exasperated.
"Shut up!" Iou roared at her, and kept going without a pause. "I apologize for before!" He threw his head down in a deep bow, and then didn't move to bring it up again. Was he planning to keep bowing until Sasuke said yes?
Unable to just stand by and watch, Nowaki lowered his voice and said, "I'm not with Iou or anything, but actually, the leader of this Dark Thunder group is apparently saying his master is Uchiha Sasuke. And he's broadcasting it to the world".
"What did you say?" Sasuke unconsciously furrowed his brow at the sudden appearance of his own name in the conversation.
"That's you, right? Uchiha Sasuke. I guess he really looks up to you or something".
Unlike Iou, Chino and Nowaki had an understanding of ninja. And they were traveling performers. They would be privy to information as they journeyed around the world. It was precisely because of this that they had guessed who he was right away, once they saw his Sharingan.
Sasuke had never heard of anyone calling themselves Dark Thunder. He was naturally annoyed at someone using his name however they pleased, but more than that, the fact that people out in the world doing evil were openly respectful of him shot a shadow of gloom into his heart. The shadow was dark and heavy.
"That's that, then", Sasuke murmured, slowly. Now that his name had been brought into it, he couldn't say it had nothing to do with him.
And it was a fact that the Dark thunder group was violent, with many victims, and this village was exposed to that terror.
The disappearance of a large number of ninja concerned him too, but he couldn't exactly walk away from this village. The reason Sasuke was on this journey was also to atone to the world, after all.
"Huh? You're gonna help?" Apparently, Chino didn't think Sasuke would help them. She looked at him with wide eyes. "I figured you'd say 'not my problem', or 'fix it yourselves', and then flip the table before taking off".
First of all, he would never flip a table, but the old Sasuke probably would have indeed said that. To begin with, the old him would have quickly passed through this village, and headed straight for the Land of Lightning.
"So you'll do it! You are the man I thought you were!" Iou raised his head, and a broad grin spread across his face. The change in his attitude was whiplash inducing.
Seeing Iou like this brought another person to mind. Tazuna, the bridge-builder from the Land of Waves. Tazuna had struggled against various obstacles to build his bridge, and he had the same audacity and quick-changing attitude. Maybe it was a special characteristic of this generation.
But the paths the two men had gone down were exactly opposite. Even after his loved one had been killed, Tazuna risked his life to fight for the future of the land, while Iou was spurred by hatred to see the power of vengeance.
"At any rate, that's enough for today, right? It doesn't seem like the Dark Thunder Group is gonna show. Let us rest". Chino made a show of yawning hugely.
"I s'pose. There's rooms here. Use 'em if you want. ...And if they do come, I'm really counting on you", Iou said, as if to drive the point home. His eyes showed that he was certain that this village was going to be attacked. And deeper in those eyes was a darkness that sought punishment for Dark Thunder for killing his daughter.
Even if Sasuke helped to resolve this incident, he had no intention of lending a hand to revenge. Although Iou likely wouldn't accept that. Instead of answering the old man, Sasuke went into the room he had been given.

"Huh? Say that one more tiiiime".
A small village nestle in the mountains. But there were no longer any villagers in it. Destroyed houses, people cruelly forced to breathe their last. Only the beasts that caught the scent of blood were lively.
Inside a ruined house, the man sitting on the table and tossing a ball at the wall turned up the corners of his mouth at his subordinate's words. Bluish-purple hair tied back loosely, pale lips. Only his eyes glittered and shone.
"Yes sir! Not long after the sun had set, when we went to scout out Takeno, there was a man using the Sharingan! Lord Karyu, it was most likely Uchiha Sasuke!".
The ball hit the wall and bounced off the blood-soaked floor next to a corpse, and then returned to the man's —to Karyu's— hand.
"Uchiha Sasuke. The sole survivor of the proud Uchiha clan. So he's in Takeno..." Karyu chuckled softly and jumped down from the table before throwing the ball up against the wall once more.

Thuk! There was a loud explosion, and the subordinate involuntarily plugged his ears and closed his eyes. When he opened them again, there was a large hole in the wall, and Karyu had stepped through it and gone outside.
Looking up at the moon hidden among the clouds, Karyu stretched out his hands. "My heart's teacher, the man who showed the world the wonder of kekkei genkai, Uchiha Sasuke... that I would get the chance to kill him!" A look of delight came across his face, and he shouted to his subordinates on standby, "All of you, get to work! Just the right time for Takeno... smash it all to pieces!"
